we're learning some more information
about the contents of this deal here it
is that the ceasefire proposal includes
three phases each of them lasting 42
days so about six weeks the first phase
of the deal includes providing passage
for displaced Palestinians to return to
their homes the second phase of the deal
includes the withdrawal of Israeli
troops and cessation of military
operations in the third stage of the
deal there's also a provision on ending
the blockade on the Gaza Strip which has
been in place for 17 years Al jazir is
political analyst Marwan Bashar joins us
in the studio Marwan
we we're in the middle of something that
we can't Define yet because we have one
side to this agreement that has accepted
it the other side
hasn't well I'll tell you something uh
certainly we've been here for the first
time over the past seven months and
clearly hamas's positive response to the
mediators proposal for a
ceasefire has shocked and has took
Everyone by surprise especially those in
Israel but perhaps also in the United
States and that's why they are climing
now to understand what exactly is the
response how positive is it and what
does it really
mean uh towards moving forward will
there be then a pickup negotiations if
you will over the agreement of the
agreement in Cairo and then when you
start the phases and so on so forth but
clearly it's a huge positive step in the
in the right direction towards a
ceasefire that there is no doubt about
and I think from my understanding
probably in paragraph five that's where
you find the key to the change of heart
or mind right I'm talking about
technicality now they talk about
sustained
quiet it's a euphemism for a permanent
ceasefire so Israel does not want to
hear the word
ceasefire because clearly nanyu cannot
sell it to his
cabinet Hamas apparently because of the
various pressures and
mediations accepted finally
to sustained
quiet as the alternative to a permanent
ceasefire this
is I want your thoughts on this I'm
listening keenly you say sustained quiet
and the words that they're having to
choose so that they could they might get
agreement on both sides two sides that
don't really want the same thing because
one wants to end the war the other one
as far as we can tell from their public
pronouncements wants to continue the war
and that's Israel um with these major
diplomatic
deals often in my career reporting on
deals like this one they're all
different but that's kind of how you get
to a deal is you fudge the language a
little bit not not fudged but you have a
gray area where both sides can kind of
understand what they want and then
that's why so often implementing the
deal becomes complicated because they
each have their own interpretation of it
you you're well you're right 100% about
that
but as in every negotiations it's the
mediator that steps in and presumably
gives it gives their understanding of
what those phrases
mean and that's why what was a bit
revealing is what you and I spoke about
yesterday if you remember yesterday I
said it's it's incredibly paradoxical
it's surprising shocking almost the fact
that it's Hamas and the United States
that want a ceasefire and that it's the
nany government that does not want a
ceasefire the United States have
provided all the guarantees it could
provide apparently and that's why uh
director burns the director of the CIA
stayed overnight and then stayed again
extended his uh stay in Doha in order
apparently to arrive at these
understandings between the United States
and the mediators or Hamas about the
phrases or the phraseology if you will
about moving forward now what's
important in this is is there a will on
the part of the United States to make
sure that the parties respect whatever
they reach to and that they arrive at
the Spirit and the letter of the
agreement I think that's what's
important
now what happened over the past two
weeks that you and I and others have
spoken about what happened over the past
two weeks it has become
clear that the continuation of this war
means the end of the Biden
presidency stopping this war means the
end of netanyahu's
Premiership that's where we're at Biden
has every incentive to reach a ceasefire
because things are starting to boil up
in his domestic scene in an election
year so now I'm going to go out Lim and
analytically from a historical
perspective tell you that what happened
at the universities in the United States
was a major factor a major factor for
where why we are there here now in the
sense of putting huge psychological
pressure and some political pressure on
the Biden Administration to move more
willfully more determinately on the
question of trying to get the both
parties together
on the question of Hamas there was the
election is in six months I'm not
interrupting I'm just adding this the
election the US election is in six
months almost to the day
absolutely now there was also pressure
on Hamas and we have to be clearheaded
about
that yesterday Lloyd today I'm not sure
Lloyd Austin the US Secretary of Defense
was basically
basically justifying
Israel's
horrific land invasion of r if it takes
place by saying Hamas left Israel no
option but to invade RAF that's a I
don't want to say criminal I don't want
to I don't want to use any vocabulary
that's you know above and beyond but
that was
definitely uh unconventional declaration
from an American Secretary of Defense to
basically justify an Israel Invasion
that is to the uh disliking of the Biden
Administration itself they just said
they can't support this absolutely so
the fact that Lloyd that Lloyd Austin
would say Hamas has given Israel no
other option but to invade Rafa that's a
that's a that's a that's a terrible
anyway be there as it may I think the
pressure on Hamas has been huge over the
past 72 hours that Netanyahu made it
clear that if nothing's going to happen
soon on the captives that he was going
to invade Galant said today nothing is
happening on the captives we are going
in right I'm I'm trying to describe an
atmosphere or a
dynamic where we find where why why
we're finding ourselves today in the
sense of the par is arriving at
terminology that is perhaps acceptable
to the United States and Hamas and maybe
tomorrow to Israel because Israel was
going to find itself the odd man
out if it does not agree to this because
you're going to hear in the next several
hours take my word for it European
leaders American leaders Middle Eastern
leaders all of them comeing out and say
yes to this mediator's proposal for a
ceasefire and it's going to be Israel
it's going to be the AL man out and
we'll see what that happens then
following your earlier train of thought
on Galant and Israeli officials saying
we're we're moving into Rafa we have no
choice but to do it because Hamas is
left with no choice right this has been
their messaging uh and then this
morning Israeli military ordered more
than 100, Palestinians to leave parts of
Rafa I've been wondering is that the
ultimate bargaining tool for them to say
we're serious look we're moving in we're
starting with this little slice of Rafa
100,000 people there are one and a half
million
people you know 1.4 million to go if you
don't stop a
nownow you know I've been saying for the
past 15 years on Al
jazer as we go from one NE one
diplomatic debuck to another uh over
different fronts of whether it's Iran
and Egypt Syria turkey and so on so
forth in the end of the day
negotiations SL diplomacy are a
reflection of the balance of power or
the imbalance they are not the
production they are not the the the end
product of some clever people trying to
reach some clever terminology that comes
later in the end of the day there is a
balance of power Hamas has proven that
it's unbe
beatable you can destroy Gaza apparently
you can't destroy Hamas one two Israel
has proven that it can destroy Gaza and
it can continue to destroy whatever it
wants to destroy and no one is going to
stop it the United States has proven
that there is no third party capable as
the United States to do something if
it's actually willing to do something
whether towards war or towards peace in
this part of the world that it in the
end of the day it does have leverage
with the Troublemaker in as far as I'm
concerned analytically speaking which is
Israel the powerful country which is
Israel so we have arrived after 7 months
of destruction of Gaza without being
able to achieve the ultimate objectives
of the netan government of October 8
October 9 right and the United States in
an election year has having an
Administration in a bind whereby you
have President Biden who basically
sitting on a successful economy
basically uccessful foreign
policy is down in the pools against a
man who has about zillion trials
happening at the same time right for
everything from I don't know whatever
you I'm not going to go into the
prostitution bits whatever it is right
so Biden understands that the war in
Gaza has hurt him a lot he thought he
can somehow uh what's the word in
English he can get you know um can
escape the storm right you can wither
the storm right but apparently not
something happened in the psyche of the
American public because of what happened
on the campuses of several hundred
American
universities the virus of Revolt started
spreading even to European universities
the young people the Z generation has
revolted in a way that is so moral so
ethical so clear about its call for
justice
that I think Biden feels the need to
push further towards a ceasefire that
what changed over the past couple of
weeks Marwan we will be coming back to
you very regularly throughout the course
of the evening Maran bishar aljaz senior
political editor thank you very
much make sure to subscribe to our
channel to the latest news from Al jazer